---
title: The Pugilist - A fighting game inspired Fighter archetype
state: publish
tags: [homebrew, fighter, archetype]
author: Milk
toc: true
---

# The Pugilist
Those fighters who embody The Pugilist fight with their unarmed strikes, using jabs, scratches, headbutts, grabs, kicks, and everything in between to defeat their opponents.  The more nimble pugilists fight like monks, but hone in on their agility and martial prowess over mystical ki.  Others wrestle in armor, fighting with fists of steel, backed by pure strength.

### The Pugilist Features
| Fighter Level  | Features | Specials Known | Unarmed Attack Die
|:---:|:-----------:|:---:|:---:|
|  3rd  | Martial Artist, Close-Quarters Combat | 2 | 1d4
|  7th  | Furious Fists, Opportunistic Grappler | 3 | 1d6
|  10th  | Crushing Attacker, Okizeme | 4 | 1d8
|  15th  | Master Grappler, Combo | 5 | 1d8
|  18th  | Master Pugilist, Super Move | 6 | 1d10

#### Martial Artist

Beginning when you choose this archetype at 3rd level, you become adept at using your unarmed attacks. You can use Dexterity instead of Strength for the attack and damage rolls of your unarmed strikes.  Additionally, the damage die of your unarmed attack becomes a d4 if it wasn't higher already.  The damage die increases to 1d6 at 7th level, 1d8 at 10th level, and 1d10 at 18th level.

#### Close-Quarters Combat
Also at 3rd level, you learn how to use special abilities called Specials.

***Specials.*** You learn two specials of your choice, which are listed at the end of the document.  Whenever you gain a level in this class, you can replace one Special you know with another from the list.  You learn one additional special at 7th, 10th, 15th, and 18th level.

***Using Specials.*** Whenever you make an unarmed attack, grapple attempt, or shove attempt on your turn, you can use a bonus action to use a special you know.  You cannot use a special on the same turn you make any attack other than an unarmed attack or improvised weapon attack.

***Saving Throws.*** Some of your specials may require your target to make a saving throw to resist the specials effects. The saving throw DC is calculated as follows:

<div style='margin-top:10px'></div>
 
 <font face='scalysans' size=''>
 
 <center> 
 
 Special Save DC </font> = <font face='scalysans' size='2'> 8 + your proficiency bonus + your Strength or Dexterity modifier (your choice)
 
 </center>
 
 </font>
 

#### Furious Fists
Starting at 7th level, your power with your unarmed strikes increases.  You gain the following benefits:
- The damage die of your unarmed strikes increases to 1d6.
- Your unarmed attacks are considered magical for the purposes of overcoming resistance and immunity to nonmagical attacks and damage.
- You learn one special of your choice.

#### Opportunistic Grappler

Also at 7th level, whenever a creature provokes an opportunity attack from you, you can instead make a grapple or shove attempt against that creature in place of an attack.  


#### Crushing Attacker
At 10th level, your unarmed attacks become exceptionally strong.  You gain the following benefits:
- The damage die of your unarmed strikes increases to 1d8.
- Whenever you hit an object with an unarmed attack, that attack is an automatic critical hit.
- You learn one special of your choice.


#### Okizeme
Beginning at 10th level, whenever a creature within your reach stands up from being prone, you can immediately make an opportunity attack against that creature. 


#### Master Grappler
At 15th level, you become an extraordinary grappler, able to wrestle creatures many times your size.  You gain the following benefits:
- Your speed is not reduced while grappling other creatures, and you ignore the size restrictions for grappling and shoving creatures larger than you.
- Creatures grappled by you cannot take reactions.
- You learn one additional special of your choice.


#### Combo
Also at 15th level, whenever you use your Action Surge class feature, you gain an additional bonus action, but that bonus action can only be used for Second Wind or to use one of your specials.


#### Master Pugilist
Beginning at 18th level, you've mastered unarmed combat.  You gain the following benefits:
- The damage die of your unarmed strikes increases to 1d10.
- You learn one special of your choice.
- Whenever you finish a long rest, you can replace one special you know with another option of your choice.


#### Super Move
At 18th level, you've unlocked a powerful finishing move.  You can use this move as an action, making an unarmed attack against a target within reach.  On a hit, the target takes your unarmed attacks normal damage, plus an additional 5d10 damage.  The target is then knocked up to 30 feet away from you in a straight line and falls prone.  

If the damage from this attack reduces the target to 100 or less hit points, they instead drop to 0 hit points.  On a miss, the attack deals no damage.

Once you hit with this special attack, you cannot use this feature again until you complete a long rest.


## Pugilist Specials
___
- ***Backstep.*** You can immediately move up to half your speed.  This movement does not provoke opportunity attacks.
- ***Block.*** The next melee attack that hits you before the start of your next turn has its damage reduced by an amount equal to your fighter level.
- ***Crossup.*** Choose a creature within reach.  You can move through that creatures space until the end of your turn, and you gain advantage on your next unarmed attack against that creature if you do so.
- ***Duck and Weave.*** You take the dodge action.  You lose the benefit of this dodge if you take any damage.
- ***Grab.*** You can immediately attempt to grapple a creature within reach, gaining advantage on the check.
- ***Jab.*** You can make one unarmed attack.
- ***Knockback.*** You can immediately attempt to shove a creature within reach, gaining advantage on the check.  This shove attempt can only be used to push a creature away from you, but if it succeeds you push them an additional 5 feet.
- ***Taunt.*** Choose a creature within 30 feet of you that can either hear or see you.  You gain temporary hit points equal to your proficiency bonus, and the target must make a Wisdom saving throw or have disadvantage on attack rolls against creatures other than you.  Both the temporary hit points and the taunt end at the start of your next turn.
- ***Sweep.*** Choose a creature within reach.  That creature must make a Dexterity saving throw, falling prone on a failure.
- ***Toss.*** One creature you are grappling must make a Strength saving throw.  On a failure, you throw the creature up to 15 ft. away from you in a straight line and they land prone.
___
