---
title: The Vishkard - A supernatural Fighter arc
state: publish
tags: [fighter, homebrew, archetype]
author: Devilpants
toc: yes 
---

# Vishkhard
*(Fighter subclass)*  

Vishkards are warrior-mystics who use a fighting method called artes, pseudo-magical maneuvers with fanciful names and storied histories. Vishkards are known by different names in different lands such as swordmages, swordsages, xianxia, sohei, and many more. In some places, their techniques are passed down through the ages, possibly even predating organized spellcasting. In other cultures, the vishkard’s artes are something completely new, a never-before-seen fusion of magic and martial prowess. Rather than relying on intellect, faith, or will, the power of a vishkard’s artes grows with training and repetition as magical energies both innate and ambient are channeled through their own bodies and into their weapons.

## Campaign Models

A vishkard is a highly disciplined warrior who combines martial prowess and supernatural manoeuvres. Here are some suggestions to incorporate Vishkards in your setting.

### Great Equalizers
This model places vishkards as underdogs in an unequal world where mages and their monstrous thralls dominate. A vishkard’s artes are seen by the ruling class as a primitive imitation of real magic, like a child playing with toys compared to proper spellcraft, but their artes are in fact a way for the common people to fight back against their oppressors without requiring decades of study, an expensive education, or a magical bloodline.

### Warrior Priests
Another way to adapt vishkards into your campaign is to make them warrior priests. Their association with destructive forces (fire, ice, and lightning) could mark them as worshipers of a deity of conquest or storms, but could also mean they worship gods of nature or belong to an animist tradition. Vishkards could also be the militant arm of an organized church, warrior monks who mete out divine justice with flame, frost, and storm.

## Subclass Features

### Artes
Starting at 3rd level, you gain access to mystical fighting techniques called artes. You learn four artes and learn one more each time you gain a subclass feature, at 7th, 10th, 15th, and 18th level. When you finish a long rest, you can change any number of artes you know and learn new ones in their place.  
You can use an arte in place of a weapon attack, such as when you use the Attack action or as a reaction when a hostile creature provokes an opportunity attack from you. You can use only one arte per turn.  
An arte's ability modifier is Strength or Dexterity (whichever is higher). This sets the saving throw DC and determines what you roll when an arte calls for an arte attack roll. If an arte requires a weapon as a material component, the ability score used is the one used when attacking with that weapon normally.

**Artes save DC = 8 + your proficiency bonus + your Strength or Dexterity modifier**

### Primal Ward
At 7th level, your mastery of primal forces grants you some measure of protection against them. When you finish a long rest, you can choose cold, fire, or lightning. You have resistance to that damage type until you finish your next long rest.  
Additionally, you are acclimated to extreme heat, extreme cold, and high altitudes, and you suffer no ill effects from frigid water or natural slippery ice. You can set fire to unattended flammable objects with a touch, and you can chill or warm up to 1 pound of nonliving material for up to 1 hour.

### Brand of Frailty
Also at 7th level, you can attack not just your foe’s body but also their innate resistances, rendering them vulnerable to elemental forces. When you hit a creature or object with a weapon attack, you can declare it branded and choose cold, fire, or lightning. The branded target loses resistance to the damage type you chose until the target dies, you die, or you brand a new target. The first time each turn the affected target takes damage of the chosen type, it takes an extra 1d6 damage of that type. The brand can be removed with dispel magic, remove curse, or similar magic.

### Tailwind
At 10th level, your mastery of mistral, sirocco, and storm grant you unprecedented mobility. When you take the attack action, you can move up to 5 feet without consuming your movement and without provoking opportunity attacks. You can use this movement before, between, or after attacks.  
Additionally, you can use a bonus action to gain a fly speed equal to your walking speed. This flight lasts for 1 minute, and can be used a number of times equal to your proficiency bonus. You regain expended uses when you finish a long rest.

### Secret Arte: Maelstrom
At 15th level, you learn a secret arte called Maelstrom, which calls down elemental power to both blast your foes and infuse your body.  
As an action, all creatures of your choice within 20 feet of you take 8d10 cold, fire, or lightning damage (your choice), or half on a successful Dexterity saving throw. Your body and weapons then becomes infused with elemental energy of the type you selected. For 1 minute, your weapon attacks deal an additional 1d10 damage of the type you selected, and any creature of your choice that begins its turn within 5 feet of you takes 1d10 damage of that type. You can use this feature once, and cannot use it again until you finish a long rest.

### Brand of Mortality
Also at 15th level, your mastery of fire, ice, and lightning allows your artes to carve away a creature’s very essence or seize control of the forces that make up its body. The target of your Brand of Frailty loses immunity to the damage type you chose.

### Secret Arte: Cataclysm
At 18th level, you learn a secret arte called Cataclysm, which focuses cosmic levels of elemental energy into a single strike, guaranteeing the total annihilation of your target.  
When you hit a creature or object with a weapon attack, you can choose to inflict an additional 100 cold, fire, or lightning damage to the target, or half on a successful Constitution saving throw against your artes save DC. You can use this feature once, and cannot use it again until you finish a long rest.

## Artes List

### Blasting Strike
Your weapon causes a small but forceful explosion, potent enough to blast your target away. Make a weapon attack as part of using this arte. On a hit, the target suffers the weapon attack's normal effects. Hit or miss, if the target is Large or smaller, it must then succeed on a Strength saving throw or take 1d6 fire damage and be pushed 5 feet away from you. This arte emits a bang that is audible out to 300 feet.  
This arte's damage increases by 1d6 when you reach 5th level (2d6), 11th level (3d6), and 17th level (4d6).  
At 11th level, the distance the target is pushed increases from 5 feet to 10 feet.  

### Blazing Wheel
Fire engulfs your weapon and you swing it vertically, and the flames leap off to form a wheel that rolls over your foes. All creatures and objects in a line 20 feet long and 5 feet wide must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw or take 1d10 fire damage.  
This arte's damage increases by 1d10 when you reach 5th level (2d10), 11th level (3d10, and 17th level (4d10).

### Bolt of Punishment
The air around your foe crackles with lightning, prepared to blast them if they try to escape. Make a weapon attack as part of using this arte. On a hit, the target suffers the weapon attack's normal effects and becomes surrounded by lightning until the start of your next turn. If the target willingly moves 5 feet or more before then, the target takes 1d8 lightning damage, and the arte ends.  
This arte's damage increases when you reach certain levels. At 5th level, the weapon attack deals an extra 1d8 lightning damage to the target on a hit, and the damage the target takes for attacking increases to 2d8. Both damage rolls increase by 1d8 at 11th level (2d8 and 3d8) and again at 17th level (3d8 and 4d8).

### Cinder Surge
Your weapon scatters seething, sparking motes of flame that explode, burning your target and anything near it. Make a weapon attack as part of using this arte. On a hit, the target suffers the weapon's normal effects. Hit or miss, the target and all creatures and objects except you within 5 feet of the target must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw or take 1d4 fire damage.  
This arte's damage increases by 1d4 when you reach 5th level (2d4), 11th level (3d4), and 17th level (4d4).

### Flames of Retribution
Flames fly from your weapon and float menacingly around your foe, ready to strike if they dare to attack your comrades. Make a weapon attack as part of using this arte. On a hit, the target suffers the weapon attack's normal effects and becomes surrounded by flickering flames until the start of your next turn. If the target attacks or casts a spell on an allied creature before then, the target takes 1d8 fire damage, and the arte ends.  
This arte's damage increases when you reach certain levels. At 5th level, the attack deals an extra 1d8 fire damage to the target on a hit, and the damage the target takes for attacking increases to 2d8. Both damage rolls increase by 1d8 at 11th level (2d8 and 3d8) and again at 17th level (3d8 and 4d8).

### Freezing Lash
You create a whip of icy energy that freezes foes even as it pulls them closer. Make a melee artes attack against a creature within 30 feet of you. If the attack hits, the creature takes 1d8 cold damage, and if the creature is Large or smaller, you pull the creature up to 10 feet closer to you.  
This arte’s damage increases by 1d8 when you reach 5th level (2d8), 11th level (3d8), and 17th level (4d8).

### Frigid Blade
A layer of frost forms on your weapon and spreads onto your target when you strike, hindering their movement. Make a weapon attack as part of using this arte. On a hit, the target suffers the weapon attack's normal effects and its speed is reduced by 10 feet until the start of your next turn.  
    Starting at 5th level, this arte’s weapon attack deals an additional 1d8 cold damage. This arte’s cold damage increases by 1d8 at 11th level (2d8) and 17th level (3d8).  
At 11th level, the target’s speed is reduced by 20 feet instead of 10.

### Frostmail
Both your weapon and your body become coated in a layer of ice. Make a melee weapon attack as part of using this arte. On a hit, the target suffers the weapon attack's normal effects and you deal an additional 1d4 cold damage, and you gain temporary hit points equal to the total damage dealt. These temporary hit points last until the end of your next turn.  
This arte's damage increases by 1d4 when you reach 5th level (2d4), 11th level (3d4), and 17th level (4d4).

### Leaping Arc
Your weapon becomes wreathed with lightning that arcs from foe to foe. Make a melee weapon attack as part of using this arte. On a hit, the target suffers the weapon’s normal effects, and one creature within 5 feet that you can see takes lightning damage equal to your artes ability modifier.  
This arte’s damage increases when you reach certain levels. At 5th level, the melee attack deals an additional 1d8 lightning damage to the target on a hit, and the lightning damage to the second creature increases to 1d8 + your artes ability modifier. Both damage rolls increase by 1d8 at 11th level (2d8 and 2d8) and 17th level (3d8 and 3d8).

### Parting Blaze
As part of casting this arte, you make a melee weapon attack against one creature or object. On a hit, the target suffers the weapon attack's normal effects, and you can move up to 15 feet without consuming movement and without provoking an opportunity attack from your target.  
Starting at 5th level, this arte's melee weapon attack deals an additional 1d8 fire damage. This arte's fire damage increases by 1d8 at 11th level (2d8) and 17th level (3d8).
At 11th level, you can teleport up to 15 feet instead of moving.

### Ruinous Rime
Swirling cold envelopes your weapon, spreading a numbing chill to your target when you strike. Make a weapon attack as part of using this arte. On a hit, the target suffers the weapon attack's normal effects and the next time it makes an attack before the end of your next turn, it must roll a d4 and subtract the number rolled from that attack roll.  
    Starting at 5th level, this arte's weapon attack deals an additional 1d6 cold damage. This arte's cold damage increases by 1d6 at 11th level (2d6) and 17th level (3d6).

### Second Surge
Your attack infuses your target with deadly crackling energy that discharges when your ally follows up. Make a weapon attack as part of using this arte. On a hit, the target suffers the weapon attack's normal effects and becomes suffused with crackling lightning. The next time the target is hit with a weapon attack by any creature except you before the start of your next turn, it takes lightning damage equal to your arte ability modifier, and the arte ends.  
This arte's damage increases when you reach certain levels. At 5th level, the initial weapon attack deals an extra 1d8 lightning damage to the target on a hit, and the lightning damage on the second hit increases to 1d8 + your arte ability modifier. Both damage rolls increase by 1d8 at 11th level (2d8 and 2d8) and 17th level (3d8 and 3d8).

### Sentry's Levin
You infuse your weapon with lightning that disrupts and staggers your foe. Make a weapon attack as part of using this arte. On a hit, the target suffers the weapon's normal effects and it can't take reactions until the start of its next turn.  
Starting at 5th level, this arte's weapon attack deals an additional 1d10 lightning damage. This arte's lightning damage increases by 1d10 at 11th level (2d10) and 17th level (3d10).

### Storm Dance
You close the distance to your foe and deliver a lightning-powered strike. Select one creature or object within 15 feet. You can move up to 15 feet toward your target without consuming your movement, but you must end your movement within 5 feet of your target. You may then make a weapon attack against your target.  
Starting at 5th level, this arte's weapon attack deals an additional 1d8 lightning damage. This arte's lightning damage increases by 1d8 at 11th level (2d8) and 17th level (3d8).
At 11th level, you can teleport up to 15 feet instead of moving.

### Tempest Fangs
With a wave of your weapon, lightning engulfs an area from both above and below, biting into your foes like fangs. All creatures and objects in a 15-foot cube originating from you must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw against your Artes save DC or take 1d6 lightning damage.  
This arte's damage increases by 1d6 when you reach 5th level (2d6), 11th level (3d6), and 17th level (4d6).

### Tundral Slam
You plunge your weapon into the ground, causing uneven patches of ice to form all around you. All creatures and objects on the ground within 5 feet of you must succeed on a Constitution saving throw or take 1d6 cold damage. Each space within 5 feet of you becomes difficult terrain for all creatures except you until the start of your next turn. You must be standing on the ground to use this arte.  
This arte's damage increases by 1d6 when you reach 5th level (2d6), 11th level (3d6), and 17th level (4d6).